<h2 class="posthead">a bicycle for the body</h2>
<font size="+1"><div style="text-align: right; padding-bottom: 8px;">September 08, 2023</div>

<p>You only learn to ride a bike once. It isn’t like ice skating, which you can part ways with after Christmas and then tumble into the rink like a newborn duckling a year later. Biking gets hardcoded into your legs, your core, your arms, your back; the very motion of cycling has been natural to humans long before we invented the bike (though how we know that, I don’t know).</p>

<p>Now imagine that this wasn’t the case. I would have to had learned and relearned how to bike 4 times so far: once, as a toddler in Central Park, then again as a kid in the hilliest neighborhood in Texas, then again as a recent high school graduate with nothing to do all summer, and finally sometime in the near future, in New Haven, testing out rental bikes after repairing them.</p>

<p>To preface: I don’t know how much of this first story is fact or fiction. I only lived in New York City for a few years, in Queens, and have next to no memories of my time there. I grew up with my sister constantly with me, doing everything she did and learning everything she knew. And allegedly, when we learned to bike, we learned together, both on training wheels in sunny Central Park. She got the hang of it before I did, which must have irked competitive toddler Sohi, and was left to console me the whole way home. The bandaid that finally worked? The Little Engine That Could, the picture book, read aloud to me by my sister who had just learned to read. I remember imagining myself as that same little engine, huffing and puffing on 2 (okay, 4) bicycle wheels and getting nowhere. But there’s an inflection point in the book: the tunnel opens, the sun comes out, and someone cheers the little engine along. That’s exactly what my sister did for me. I got back on my bike, and a couple weekends later, I had learned to bike for the first time.</p>

<p>The second time came with two invaluable lessons apart from “push the pedals and center yourself”. One was to let the local Texas fauna dictate their own diets. My sister and I would bike to ACE Hardware, where the cashier would give us free popcorn in red-and-white striped paper bags. Behind ACE lived a family of squirrels, and out of some combination of environmental ignorance and youthful adoration, my sister and I fed every last kernel to those poor critters, every single time. The other lesson was a little more personal: I learned how to leave friends behind. My closest friends had sped ahead of me plenty of times racing bikes around our neighborhood, leaving me and my green iPod Shuffle in their dust. Moving houses was the first time the roles reversed, and I found myself leaving them behind. Even though I was only 20 or so minutes away, as kids with no cars or phones, attending different elementary schools, we might as well have been living on different planets. It was never hard for me to make new friends, but this time around, they were more interested in Beyblades and Percy Jackson than biking. After a while, my bike was once again foreign to me.</p>

<p>This past summer, I found myself scrambling for ways to keep in touch with my high school friends, before we moved all over the country — and away from each other — for college. I could have never imagined we would reunite on the bike trail. It was so difficult to get outside and stay active in Houston’s triple digit temperature, no rain summer, and the only real time slots I could get out during were before 7:30 AM or after 7:30 PM. As you can imagine, coordinating a bike club between 5+ high school grads on that tight of a schedule was next to impossible. But then we discovered this little orange app, by the name of Strava, where we could track and post our bike routes, cheer each other on, and hold each other accountable even when we couldn’t physically explore our hometown together. All summer, no matter the circumstance, as soon as the clock struck 7:30 PM, I popped on my Navy Pier cap and got going on the 15-miler of the day. In Alaska, my sister and I biked the Tony Knowles Coastal Trail; the morning after the red-eye back home, I biked the George Mitchell Nature Preserve (and then slept for 13 hours). My friends and I would race in loops around shopping plazas and swerve between streetlights, and at the end of a long day, kick back by the nearest pond and talk at length about college and careers and relationships and experiences. At the time, I knew those were moments I would look back on fondly, and now, not very long after, I do.</p>

<p>I never wanted to learn to bike for a fourth time. The magnitude of my desire to bring a bike to college was absurdly large, but I knew there was an equally large chance of it getting stolen or lost. As the saying goes, “buy a cheap bike and an expensive lock”. Or, in the Sohi translation, “buy a cheap foldable bike”. I logged onto eBay, and 4 counteroffers later, I had dropped $80 on a bright white foldable bike. It was a lot slower than my bike at home, but I could take it literally everywhere, and it never left my sight. But as college move-in day approached, some sort of packing anxiety kicked in, to the point that I convinced myself the bike wasn’t an essential item and I had to get rid of it right away. So two nights before my one-way flight to college, my sister and I set out on a high risk, high reward bike-selling expedition. We wheeled my bike around town, doing folding demos for interested passerby and pitching everything we could about the bike, down to the bell. And around 11 PM, just when we were losing hope, a couple exited Walmart with their eyes glued to the bike and its scrappy “BIKE FOR SALE” sign. They introduced themselves as avid MS150 riders, who were looking for a cheaper bike to take around local trails during off season. It was a perfect match, and my sister and I walked off $160 richer (minus the amount we spent on celebratory Luigi’s Italian Ice).</p>

<p>So here I am, bikeless but optimistic. I’m talking to a couple local bike shops, and I’m close to landing a repairman gig with the employee benefit of letting me take repaired rentals for test spins. I still get the occasional Strava notification, showing me routes friends just biked in cities I’ve never been to. From 500 miles away, my sister keeps me updated with her workout routines and outdoor explorations. And the city I live in just bleeds bicycles — the bike was patented in New Haven, we hosted the first American bike race, and we were the first to be named a Bicycle Friendly city. Steve Jobs once called the computer “a bicycle for the mind”. Three decades later, I’m in school studying computers, and I’m looking for a bicycle for the body again.</p></font>
