## reflections on Gravel

<font size="+1"><p>Over a month after Gravel’s acquisition, I’m finally pausing to collect my thoughts and reflect on paper. The stack of Gravel Robotics business cards on my windowsill and the origami dodecahedrons piled next to them are a reflection in their own capacity: coincidental commentary on the multimillion dollar nanotech company that emerged from a midnight research rabbithole on utility fog.
<br><div class="spacer"></div>
From my document edit history, that night was 2 years and 3 months ago. In previous years, my science fair projects had touched on advanced materials, but always from a chemistry perspective rather than a robotics one. But I was starting to wonder: <em>what’s the point of all these materials? Metals and ceramics and polymers and wood — I mean, isn’t it all just so outdated?</em> Entering buildings or vehicles made 15 year old me’s head spin as I began to categorize and calculate the cost of every material and machining process possibly in use. <em>Why couldn’t a universal material exist?</em>
<br><div class="spacer"></div>
Futurists and researchers like John Storrs Hall and Richard Feynman had been asking the same question for decades. Reading a transcription of “There’s Plenty of Room at the Bottom” online led to printing it out and annotating it, which led to handing it to my teacher before school and pitching a science fair project on programmable matter. Of course, I received the usual “are you sure”s and “how will this ever work”s, but at that point, programmable matter was no longer an option in my mind. It was the direction materials were heading, without me or not, and I wanted to further that evolution as much as I humanly could.
<br><div class="spacer"></div>
I had dabbled with electronics all my life, but microrobotic design was foreign to me. I spent the rest of 2021 combing through articles, tackling new concepts, and failing and failing again. Age and COVID restrictions meant I couldn’t work in university facilities, so I took inspiration from the likes of Jeri Ellsworth and Sam Zeloof, rolling up my sleeves and hunkering down in my garage. I built electrolytic cells out of sauce jars, used alarm motors to actuate test environments, and snaked ventilation across my garage, redirecting airflow to a hand-built glovebox and poorly mimicking a cleanroom environment. I spent every 3rd period history class coding, designing circuitry, studying journal articles, and cold emailing (I suffer from gaps in my TEKS for social studies as a result). After school, I was in the robotics lab, either borrowing parts or returning last week’s supply. The majority of my time junior year, notoriously high school’s most difficult year, went behind researching, building, and optimizing this microrobotic swarm that I saw as an inevitable step forward for humanity and technology.
<br><br>
In May 2022, I won Best of Materials Science at the International Science and Engineering Fair with my 16th or 17th garage prototype. This meant the world for my microrobots and me. ISEF judges, known to be at the top of their fields globally, were excited about programmable matter, and wanted to invest their money and time into seeing it through. I landed a spot at Rice University’s nanofabrication facility soon after, where professors, PhD students, awards, and research grants supported my work in a genuine cleanroom.
<br><br>
Things were looking up for programmable matter. Between college applications, school, internships, extracurriculars, work, family responsibilities, and more, I stayed busy senior year, but every free second I had went to science fair. The project I was submitting would work infinitely better than the one that won 1st place the year before, but optimizing logical topology and automating manufacturing infrastructure was incredibly complex, especially when everything I knew was learned just a few nights before. Still, the sheer excitement and momentum of changing the world with an invention like this drove me to the lab every day.
<br><br>
I’m not sure why I decided to launch Gravel Robotics when I did, but I remember the moment I made the decision. I was at a pier in Central America with a dead phone and I couldn’t put the recurring thought of integrating programmable matter with every existing technological system, from cars on bridges to satellites in space, on hold. I had recently picked up Dugan’s <i>The Great Iron Ship</i>, and just like the men that built The Great Eastern or laid the transatlantic telegraph cable, I couldn’t stand to hold onto an invention without seeing it through. On top of that, my friends in software were experiencing rapid acceleration in their fields, while hardware remained static or even fell behind technological capability. Demand was higher than ever — there was no better time to strike. So, at the turn of 2023, after consulting some friends and doing some market analysis, Gravel Robotics was born.
<br><br>
Nothing could have prepared me for the transition from academia to entrepreneurship. Especially with moonshot tech like shapeshifting materials, the scientific desire to continue testing and analyzing and iterating through designs until I perfected my product conflicted immensely with the notorious startup mindset of ship now, perfect later. (Though I must say, there was <i>some</i> similarity in the research, because just like with tech, business often has 10 terms for the same thing, all heavily acronymed and all equally used.) I began to institutionalize the company, speak with interested customers, partners, and investors, and gain some real material traction in the manufacturing space. Gravel grew its brand and my final prototype for programmable matter passed every test I needed it to pass.
<br><br>
At the end of April, 3 days after prom and the day after Eras, I flew up to Yale for their admitted students weekend. I met someone at an engineering lecture who was also deeply interested in robotics and wholly dedicated to his passion projects, and we decided to get breakfast the next morning together. Breakfast turned into a 4 hour long conversation, from which my main takeaways were “this guy really wants to work for Gravel”, “this guy would be perfect at Gravel”, and his copy of Asimov’s <i>Foundation</i> trilogy. We stayed in touch and I ultimately onboarded him as our first founding engineer.
<br><br>
There wasn’t much engineering to do at the time. I was entirely focused on discovering potential customers and raising a seed round to get our first generation of programmable matter out of the lab and into production. We worked together on pitch decks and use case specifications, and I spent a lot of time on calls with defense contractors, manufacturers, deep tech investors, other founders, etc. trying to pinpoint issues and get people excited about what Gravel could do for them. (So much time that I had to face several truancies for inconsistent attendance records with my high school…)
<br><br>
And then, as you know, Gravel Robotics was acquired for national security operations. Over the course of 70 sleepless hours one weekend in June, deals were closed, papers were signed, and the technology I had lived and breathed for the past 2 years was no longer under my control. Friends advised me to enjoy senior summer and adjust to college, and after some time, I felt my personal outlook on life shift from wanting “one enormous pursuit that takes up 40 years of my life” to wanting “several shorter-term pursuits that each contribute something incredible to the world”.
<br><br>
Inventing programmable matter and founding Gravel is, to date, the single experience I have learned the most from and extracted the most value from, as well as the hardest thing I have ever done. I’m incredibly optimistic about the future of materials and I can’t wait to continue researching and building materials with extraordinary capabilities. But for now, as I wrap up this reflection and get back to my summer job, the paper making up the business cards and dodecahedrons on my windowsill, as well as the pages of this notepad, works just fine.</p></font>
